---
layout: post
title: "Understanding Bash fork() Bomb ~ :(){ :|:& };:"
date: 2017-02-11  13:00:000 +0100
comments: false
tags: [bash, fork]
---

# Understanding Bash fork() Bomb ~ :(){ :|:& };:

[Article original](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/understanding-bash-fork-bomb/) de 2007 mis à jour le 2012-09-02

Can you explain the following bash code or bash fork() bomb?

```bash
:(){ :|:& };:
```

The fork bomb is a form of denial-of-service (DoS) attack against a Linux based system.
It makes use of the fork operation.

`:(){ :|:& };:` is nothing but a bash function.
This function get executed recursively.
It is often used by sys admin to test user process limitations.
Linux process limits can be configured via `/etc/security/limits.conf` and PAM.

Once a successful fork bomb has been activated in a system it may not be possible to resume normal operation without rebooting the system as the only solution to a fork bomb is to destroy all instances of it.

WARNING! These examples may crash your computer if executed.

Understanding :(){ :|:& };: fork() bomb code

- :() – Defined the function called
- :. This function accepts no arguments.

The syntax for bash function is as follows:

```bash
foo(){
    arg1=$1
    arg2=$2
    echo 'Bar..'
    #do_something on $arg argument
}
```

fork() bomb is defined as follows:

```bash
:(){
 :|:&
};:
```

- :|: – Next it will call itself using programming technique called recursion and pipes the output to another call of the function ‘:’. The worst part is function get called two times to bomb your system.
- & – Puts the function call in the background so child cannot die at all and start eating system resources.
- ; – Terminate the function definition
- : – Call (run) the function aka set the fork() bomb.

Here is more human readable code:

```bash
bomb() { 
 bomb | bomb &
}; bomb
```

Properly configured Linux / UNIX box should not go down when fork() bomb sets off.


## Licence

[See original post](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/understanding-bash-fork-bomb/)
